This is the Open Global Mind weekly call on Thursday, November 13th, 2025.
We have a fun topic today.
Which is, what happened to curiosity?
I think I have a funny feeling that many of us have
our own theories about this, our own hypotheses.
Uh, so I'm interested, maybe, in collecting up a couple of those before we go in.
Victoria has put a link in the chat, which we may need to put in a couple times, because as people come into the room, they don't see the previous chat.
So we'll probably have to repeat it.
But Victoria went to town on an Excalibra board,
that is multi-user, so everybody can go look at it.
Uh, maybe a thing I can do…
Actually, definitely a thing I can do is screen share mine.
my screen so that everybody can see it on mine for a moment.
Uh, so here is…
The Excala draw board, I see that several people are already in it.
And, uh, you can scroll around…
And this looks way more interesting and elaborate than when it started.
Which was, I guess, yesterday morning.
Fabulous, love this work.
And, uh, I think everybody can go ahead and add things.
I believe, and Victoria, if you want to do a tutorial, let me know, and you can take over, but just for the moment,
If you wanted to add a box with some comments,
See the little menu at the top? Click on the rectangle.
And then, uh, basically make a box.
And start typing in it, and give it a color. Over here is the color selection if you want to, to sort of fit the
mood and method of this whole thing.
I'm gonna eliminate, I'm gonna try to…
Delete my box, there we go.
And it's pretty straightforward, and the settings right now are so that lines look like they're a little hand-drawn, and the text
is a nice handwritten sort of text, which gives the whole…
Excalibra board, a nice feeling of, of sort of human…
humanity and, uh…
Looks like it was created by people drawing on a board, which is very, very nice.
And then…
And just to make everyone comfortable, I have a copy of this State of the Board.
So, if everything is messed…
Excellent.
It doesn't matter.
Beautiful. So Victoria has taken a snapshot, and we're off to the races. So, riff on this, add to it.
do whatever. Victoria, anything you want to add to what I just described?
Well, my only…
remark is what it's at the top left corner.
Because…
in that… in…
in the mail, we were given many solutions.
And closing very early the problem.
And that's not what we should strive for. We should strive for open as many questions as possible. So if instead of saying,
Uh, education, closest curiosity. We state it as a question.
Does education close up?
Then we will have more things to work with.
Sounds great. I tend to think of it as just depositing of multiple theories instead of the choosing of one to close it down.
Yes, well, the thing is…
Gathering all the opinions, but trying…
to show that we are not closing, but opening.
Yep. Perfect.
Sounds great. Um…
Thank you, thank you. So, with that, I'll stop my screen share and hope that everybody can follow the links
And get, uh, into the Excalibra.
And see if anybody wants to take an opening step, or… Victoria, if you want to take an opening step into the conversation, that would be great, too.
Well, for me, as you have seen, it's, um…
like, an ongoing theme?
Like, when I first talked to you, Jerry, and you said that trust…
And consumerism were your things.
So, the other day, I understood that this also has been always a concern for me.
And seeing how it exploded in the community,
I thought, okay, instead of…
Each of us, like…
Taking it to one place or another?
why don't we get everything inside, so we can maybe decide
We can work, because here today I have the issue of access.
that links with…
the fact that you say,
Uh, books are, like, fossil knowledge.
It's trapped, there are also the silos.
the academia…
that you need subscriptions, paid subscriptions, to…
So, there are a lot of things going on, so maybe…
We must, like, gather everything,
And I start thinking how this relates to different OGM projects.
Or maybe different things that can start from here.
So the… my…
I wanted to link this issue with the other issues that are going around in the community.
Brilliant. Thank you, that's great.
I love that. Um…
Kevin, please.
Is the premise that we are losing, or curiosity is being diminished?
Uh, if that's it, I completely disagree, so I'm curious.
I think… I think the question started as, hey,
kids in school seem incurious.
things like that are happening, like, are we losing curiosity? And I think in general,
will agree with you that, no, no, no. And in particular, we have a selection bias problem here.
Which is that I think everybody in this room is, like, really, really curious and probably hangs out with really curious people.
Um, but, uh, Victoria, I don't know if you want to address that, or anybody else.
I'll say something on it. Oh, Scott, sorry, you were ahead of me.
Oh, I guess I hit my buzzer faster than you.
Yeah.
Um, what… what struck me as interesting in this, I agree with you, Jerry, that we have a
a bias of the people in the room, because this room attracts those kinds of people. And my art…
argument would be that this group tends to be high in openness.
So if we look at the Big Five personality model, which is the…
was statistically verified model of personality.
Openness is one of the five dimensions.
And that dimension…
is… people who tend to be creative, interested in intellectual pursuits,
open to new things and new ways, curious.
And it exists on a spectrum.
There are people who are low in openness.
And neither end of the spectrum
is, um…
evolutionarily better, which is why we have…
the spectrum. Sometimes you need to be less open.
And you need to be more…
literal, or more practical, or more…
tradition, or history, or ritual.
And sometimes you need to be more open,
And more accepting and more combining, and more…
far-reaching, and that sort of thing, which is why
My understanding of it is why we have both ends. But my thought is, is that…
If we're looking for people who are… or if we're seeing things where evidence of less curious, we're going to continue to
notice all of those instances where people are less curious, and I think those are the people who are
less on the open side, and…
that I, um, I tend to agree that it's not…
I haven't seen a sea change in that, but that was one thing I wanted to put out there, is that I believe it exists on a…
Thanks, Scott.
Gil, please.
Yeah. Yeah, I've raised this a couple of times out of personal experience, um, which may have all kinds of selection bias in it. I've observed
The initial assessment that I formed was that… was that people much younger than me were not curious, and how that showed up is conversations with them.
Where I would ask them questions, and they would not ask me questions.
Which I found perplexing. And I found this even more striking in networking situations, where you're meeting somebody at a conference and you're chatting, and I've been really struck at how one way those conversations have been.
Um, and so I've taken recently to, um,
doing something I've never done before, just like start to talk about things in the course of meeting someone new.
I'll start to talk about what I'm up to, what I'm doing, what I want to talk about, what I would have wanted to be asked about.
And then the conversation proceeds kind of normally. They're interested, and there's back and forth, but the initiation, what I'm calling curiosity of asking questions about somebody else,
what they're thinking, interested in, doing, or so forth.
I'm noticing it in its absence.
But to qualify what I just said,
I was remembering last night, we… Jane and I had dinner.
A few months ago, uh, with a person who we've known since she was, like, 12.
Um, but she's now 55, or something like that.
And, um, she made us a lovely buffet. We had spent the afternoon in her backyard.
I spent about… spent about 3 hours together.
Um, and she didn't ask a single question.
Of us. How we doing? How's your life, how's your health? She knows that Jane has been going through major health issues for many years.
to somebody who knows her and loves her.
And… didn't ask anything.
I was really… I was… I became increasingly uncomfortable. I was really baffled. I didn't figure out what was…
what was weird until afterwards,
But I've never been in a situation like that.
So, that… it echoes the question about curiosity. It challenges my assumption that it's a phenomenon of younger people, because
She's, you know, not younger, she's younger than us, but she's not young.
So, um, um, and one… let me throw one more data point into this, which is an old one. So, early on in natural logic, we were doing lots of site assessments of companies, looking, you know, looking at efficiency.
Uh, and footprint reduction opportunities.
And, um…
Uh, one of my junior staff members, who's actually not so junior, like, you know, an engineer, smart,
Um, analytical, had been with me on a number of these,
he finally went out on one of his own.
And when he came back, I was really struck at how… at all kinds of information that he hadn't gathered.
Um, and we kind of unpacked what he talked with the staff at the company about, and…
I would say, like, did you ask him about ABC? He said, God, I didn't think of that.
So, this is maybe not curiosity, but it's a… the map of distinctions that leads somebody on a trail of investigation.
Uh, it was very striking how different his…
But I called Curiosity was. And how we had to kind of, you know, train him up.
And being curious, investigating…
Um, let me stop there. There's more to say, but I want to not hog the mic here.
I'll stop there.
Gil, I'm really appreciating your first-person stories. I really like that, you know, this person is doing this because I'm…
I'm coming into this partly from having read a few too many stories about how incurious
Recent graduates seem to be, when they come into work, which leads us into the education conversation. Is something happening to our kids who are busy?
Cramming but not learning.
Have we stamped out, sort of, inquisitiveness in the schooling system? And that… and we'll go there.
But I think there's lots of other things going on.
that your stories are pointing to. Go ahead.
And let me just say one other thing before I yield it to Alex. I put a note in the chat. I'm an etymology geek, so I started quickly looking for etymology and found this thing saying, well, there's this curious etymology.
Um, uh, curious etymology, curiosity relates to care.
Kura. And so in this formulation, they're saying its origins reveal a deeper truth. To be curious as to care enough.
To pay attention. So that may be a false trail, or that may be a relevant piece of this conversation, I don't know.
That's lovely. I think that the etymology is important as well.
Thanks.
And Victoria, thank you, I stuck that into the drawing.
Beautiful, yep. I saw that you did that.
Maybe not skillfully, but there it is.
Excellent. Uh, Alex, please.
Thanks. Um, I suddenly realized I didn't have it.
So, the points have been made so far are very, sort of, not very, they're on the academic side of curiosity.
My… I thought when we first mentioned it, we'd start talking about.
The curiosity, in the sense that we're so polarized that each side, or whoever it is.
And I can go through the recordings, and I can find every single… sorry, not every single… at least one example where each one of you.
has made a statement, and I'm thinking. But why don't you look at it from this point of view?
And it'll disprove your statement, okay? Every single one of you, I'm sure, I'll come up with.
It's inherent in us. We want to feel good.
So, so it depends on the topic. So if it's politics, and we're on the left or the right.
we don't want to… challenge our mental model and belief system.
So that's one of the obstacles to being curious.
And it really puzzles me because. And many people have said this in the Twitter sphere, whatever.
whatever it is, that it's really amazing that we as humans.
We'll go to page 1, and we'll read about some politician announcing a new this, that, and the other.
and say how great the politician is, if we support them.
And then we'll go to number 5, you know, page 5 of the newspaper.
And there's an article of what Shai says that politicians are.
And we can compartmentalize the two and not. cross-feed if he's the shyster over there, if that part is lying over there.
what tells you that they tell the truth here? And that, to me, it's curiosity, or… maybe I'm using the wrong word, which amazes me, because I do it, and I'm sure everybody else does it.
And yet, we know it. You know, it's sort of, um… the other thing was about the young. I have personal experience from my kids.
I… what can I say? I enjoy talking.
discussing things with them. if there's no belief system involved, be it politics, religion, whatever it is.
We have a great conversation. But as soon as we start discussing things we care about.
And remember, the mechanic here is, oh. that's an old what's it, so he's not going to think about it the way as us.
But what amazes me is their reluctance. To even hear or question what their belief system… something I might challenge the belief system. It really is amazing, and I do think, Jerry, you mentioned it.
It's to do with, um, the way we've been taught, and it isn't something that's just happened.
I think it's happened over time that we kind of.
Maybe it's the influence of TV, because it's an acceptance machine, and on TV, you don't actually challenge anything, you just.
watch and enjoy. You don't interact with it or something like that, maybe radio as well.
maybe how the technology has grown, but. young people, I think it's a teaching system, or the teach… they don't… they're not… the Fed information.
And I always used to think… I always used to think I was challenged at school to think differently.
But maybe I wasn't, I don't know. But that was the, um… That was the point I wanted to say, is that we're all doing this.
every day, even in this call, we will do it.
That we're not… you guys call it curiosity, I call it… the not standard, or what you see in front of your point of view.
That was me. Have you considered yourself all told off?
Oh, totally.
For not being perfect human.
Totally, Alex, thank you. I'm thinking, at first, I am noticing that my image is flashing green every now and then. I think it's my little USB hub, which is…
Not happy that I've got the microphone plugged in as well as the camera through it, so I'm gonna troubleshoot that, but in case you're like, what's going on with Jerry? It's not that I'm coming, phoning in from a different planet, it's that some of my…
Systems are not cooperating properly.
Um, Alex, I think a piece of what you were pointing to, uh, I would… I would have called critical thinking,
And I'm also realizing that we could have replaced the word curiosity with the phrase critical thinking in the invite to today's call, and probably would have gotten a similar showing.
Maybe that's a topic for future… it's adjacent, as Gil says, you know, right after.
right after my thing. Uh, Scott's unsure.
But…
there's a piece of what I think you're raising, Alex, which is about our identity and our self-image.
And our cell… the preservation of self.
or the… or even… or even…
the development of self, and how… what we… who we think we are and where we think we stand.
And I think there's an interesting bit of conversation here about
Are we now afraid to take a stand? Are we confused about where the stands are? Do we think that taking a stand has become
Dangerous, uh, because of the level of… the poor level of discourse out there in the public arena.
Are we afraid of being canceled, or afraid of being pounded, or trolled, or whatever else? And those all seem, you know, more or less legitimate.
In the current environment.
Let me go to Pete. And Alex, if you'll take your hand down from…
Before. Pete, please.
Uh, thank you, Sherry. And, uh, Alex, thanks for telling us all off. I appreciate it.
Um…
Uh, I… I guess I wanted to say that I don't…
I see declines in curiosity, but I think I also see increases in curiosity, too.
So, I think it… it changes the landscape. It keeps changing. Um, I certainly know there are places where we kill curiosity.
living in an entertainment culture where you're supposed to sit back and
consume, but not, uh, participate.
is obviously a bad thing. Um, the way that we do education, uh,
I, you know, as a kid growing up in school, there were lots of ways
Teachers killed Mike, uh, curiosity, um, and…
and worse for other people in my classes.
Um, I wanted to… the reason I raised my hand and wanted to say something was because of Gil's story about the person that he and Jane know.
that didn't ask, uh, didn't ask
you know, about them. And it reminds me, I learned from Joanne, my wife, uh,
to be able to have
to be able to be curious and have a conversation with somebody, even if…
Maybe you don't care in the grander scheme of things, or you're shy, or whatever.
I'm… I'm kind of shy.
Um, and it's just a rote thing, right? Um, it's just human and polite, uh, to be sitting with somebody and to ask them, you know?
you know, how's your life? Uh, do you have pets? Uh, do you have friends? Uh, you know, where did you grow up? Those kinds of things. It's not hard to do. And…
I know I went from somebody who
didn't have that as a skill that I was ever taught, really, by my parents, or my peers, or my school.
Um, uh, I learned that very quickly from Joanne.
Um, and so…
one of, uh, certainly some curiosity is innate. I've got a lot of innate curiosity, and probably most of the people in this… in this room do.
The place where I see that most nowadays is actually, um, working with AI, um,
I've spent a lot of time showing people how, you know, this AI thing.
And there are a lot of people who…
Um, they play with it for a little bit, and it doesn't do anything interesting, and then they're done. And, you know, I'm like, well, I'm… I… when I tried playing with it, it was actually hard work, I remember.
Having to sit down and go, okay, what can I do with it now? What crazy thing could I give it, you know?
you know, I used to do things like write poetry in 3 different languages, come up with a short story that starts with blah, come up with, you know, all kinds of crazy stuff.
Um, and it was not second nature to do that with this new…
information tool. It was something I had to work through, but…
I was so curious about it, I worked through it. And I see a lot of people bouncing off new technology, um, because of that.
Same thing, you know, when people adopted the internet. Same thing when people adopted PCs.
You know, I was an early adopter of those, and I was like, you know, I don't know what it does, but let me find out, let me try to break it, let me try to do crazy stuff with it, can it do this, can it do that?
Um, so…
Some… some is definitely innate. Some curiosity is definitely innate, but another thing…
that Gil's story made me realize, is some curiosity is a social practice.
Um, you know, I…
somewhere in our world, it ought to be
And end up that you get taught by your peers, or your school, or your parents, or somebody.
You know, here's some things that you can do to…
enact curiosity, even if you're not particularly interested,
just enact it as a social practice because it helps everybody. You know, it helps, um, it helps people feel good when you talk about them. It helps people…
It helps you learn stuff that you wouldn't have known otherwise when you're, you know, got
We've got a few hours, uh, writing in a carriage, or…
Um, in an airplane, or whatever we do nowadays.
Um, so that was what I wanted to say. Thanks.
Thanks, Pete.
Stacy.
Thanks, Peter. I have to address what you said first, or maybe second.
Yeah, I'll do… I'll do that after. Um, or maybe… you maybe have to get that out of the way first.
I'm just on the other side of, um… Yeah, curiosity when it's not genuine.
can also be really annoying. It's, it's like… Yeah, let me just get that off my chest.
Because it… at least for… Me…
I don't know if it's… if I want to say as a woman or not.
As someone who sometimes feels or has felt disempowered.
Sometimes curiosity. can feel like I have to explain myself.
So I just want to put that out there.
It feels like prying.
And…
It feels like prying, you mean, or…?
genuinely. Say it again? Yeah, or, like, having to justify why I'm doing what I'm doing.
Mm-hmm.
And if I may, when I learned
this kind of social curiosity from Joanne.
when it's genuine, it's wonderful. There's nothing…
Her observation, as a woman, was…
men are acculturated to not be curious, especially about women, about lots of stuff, right? And so…
in a way, it was a kind of women's work, that she doesn't mind doing because it's not the worst
thing that women have to do in this world. Um, but…
She was always… she felt like she was always the one who were like, you know, it's not that hard, guys.
Uh, just ask questions. And you're entirely correct. Insincere.
Uh, curiosity is worse than just shutting up. However,
I would also say, um, it's…
Yeah.
It's not hard at all to learn to ask humbly and be genuinely interested in the answer.
Thank you.
Where did you grow up? You know, it's not…
it's… it's, uh… I can ask that question and not care about the answer, but…
It's not hard as a social practice for me to say, I really do care where you grew up.
And I hope you ask if… where I grew up, too, but, you know, if you don't, I understand that you're not
You're not as careful as I am, or you're not as polite, or whatever, I'm gonna, like, shine that on. And I know women have to do that a lot more than men, so…
Yeah, and you know it, I'm probably the wrong person, because I'm not doing anything I don't want to do.
I'm sorry, anybody. I don't pro- I probably don't care where you live, so somebody else will ask you.
Well, you ask even better questions, Stacy. But, you know, there's a set of, like, 5 questions that even, uh…
Forgive me, forgive me.
A man can learn, you know, ask this question, really care about the answer, and there's probably a follow-up question, you know?
Where did you go to school? You know, it's…
Okay, anyway, let me, let me, let me say what I really wanted to say.
pretty simple to do. Go ahead, I'm sorry to have interrupted you.
Now, now I'm curious what you're going to say.
Um… Okay, this is what I want to say. I want to go back to.
I want to connect to where Gil was speaking.
Because I… so I was reminded of, um… George Mombia, where he says.
Where we don't have the story, we make up one, and I want to connect to Gil's stories.
So, when he was speaking about, like, coaching and.
I was thinking, so the people that don't ask questions then.
the story that I made up in my mind.
is that sometimes people that are either younger. or if I could replace that with less experience, because they might be the same age.
But they might be less experienced. Sometimes they haven't had the space to talk.
And so they don't want to ask questions. And hear experience, because they are just dying to have somebody hear them.
So I want to throw that out. Um, and as far as the people that were talking to Jane.
Sometimes people are afraid to hear the answers, and they're so uncomfortable.
with sickness, and they don't want to know. And I wanted to throw that out, too, because sometimes really caring, loving people.
are just so uncomfortable with feelings and don't know what to say.
And that calls in, you know, the curiosity kind of killed the cat thing, so sometimes we don't ask questions. Well, I'm looking at the lawyer in the corner. Doug, you're in the corner, and it's like, don't ask the question that you don't know the answer to.
So, um, those are some stories that came, some possible stories.
Um, I tend to be somebody I will ask the question.
Because I don't want to make up a story in my head.
It's usually, I've found in my life, it's better to ask the question and know for sure.
than to just imagine what the answer is. And do I have any other questions… anything? Okay, I think… I think I covered everything I wanted to say.
Yay! Thank you, Stacey.
Over.
You're reminding me of a conversation I'm having on LinkedIn, where I put a post in about futurists and future visions,
how they're all kind of crappy, and a friend of mine posted in the comments,
about, um…
Maybe we don't need future visions. Maybe what we need is to be really present.
And it kind of flipped the game on me, and it was really interesting, because I find that…
whatever model I have of where we're going, and the competing models of where we're going, I love that conversation and that battle.
But I also find that my behavior changes enormously depending on what I think
what I think I want in the future. I need those visions in order to figure out what…
how to be present.
And so, I haven't seen her response to that, but we're in the middle of that conversation right now. It's kind of cool.
Mr. Jones, thanks for your patience.
Well, you know, I think my success in life has been based on not paying attention in school.
Because I never could figure out what they wanted, and it didn't seem like much.
But then when I got into business, I understood I was in a fluid, dynamic system that people were passionate about, and they were making things and buying things and selling things, and it was my Breyer patch.
And I'm running my friend Ben Santer, and his story, I think, is really relevant.
He was a PhD candidate who failed 3 times and was working in day labor in Seattle.
And the one professor who still believed in him got him a gig.
Of copying, uh, maps in an ag weather, uh.
company. And he suddenly understood climate, and it was a big enough thing, just like school wasn't big enough, climate was.
He was the author of the first UN report on climate.
And one of the reasons he was the author is he had a really, you know, his ego was really in check, because he remembered he… If he hadn't had that one-day labor come through, he would still be.
You know, day laborers don't stay very stable, and so he was the one everybody trusted, and it was only when he… he just saw.
You know, a weather map of Kansas. And, you know, what was going to happen to corn, and suddenly understood the system he was in. And, you know, he and I are similar in that way.
Is that, you know, again, not paying attention to school was a great gift.
Um, and… because I found the place where I did fit, you know, it was… Fluid, dynamic system, you know, with elements of reciprocity, and so… Ben was the same way, so I think, you know.
I think you have to survive school, but I don't see people low… you know, it's just they hadn't found the, you know, their briar patch, that's what I think.
Thanks, Kevin. Scott.
range, and that's the Big Five model kind of supports that.
I don't want to throw a scatterbomb of different
ideas, so I'm looking for a theme here.
Excellent.
Um, alright, this is one I don't…
No.
I like this idea that Pete had brought up about
asking people. I do it all the time.
I talked to the people at the checkout line.
In the grocery store, and things like that.
Um, I like to think
As a 59-year-old, that I'm not that creepy old guy.
that I'm actually sincere, that I'm actually… we have a pleasant exchange, that I know a little something about them,
what they're like, and it's… it's…
It's better than a simply pure transactional.
I'm wondering, and this is the part that I don't know, is…
Are we… are our young people being raised to
not do that.
Because…
We don't want to discriminate.
based on any of the discrimination
factors that we shouldn't discriminate on, and that
We shouldn't be intrusive, as you said, and that the idea of
sharing things about yourself.
is more often, or can be used, especially online,
For insult, rather than connection.
And we're going to seek to avoid pain more than we are
towards pleasure.
And the internet's forever.
You know, and so online, if you share personal things about yourself,
They're… they're generally unneeded for the conversation that you're having, because it's about some other topic, or it's not germane.
It can be used against you, and maybe you… maybe…
That's part of it, personally, and the other part is that maybe we're taught don't…
Don't ask those things, we are not supposed to…
inquire about race and religion and gender and all of those things, because it's…
it caused trouble, and…
the last thought that I had that was all connected into that was that I…
Met my wife online.
And I say often that it was the best thing.
The best thing, because I had to meet the person.
Before I could meet the person.
And it stripped away all the… all the other stuff. I just had to…
I had to get to know this individual.
And it has worked out extremely well because of that.
Thanks, Scott. Victoria.
I just wanted to make a real
follow up on this conversation about carrying?
By presenting you all, my friend Gabrielle,
Who has to join us, because this morning we were… we were walking together,
iron.
He, in Italy, in Spain, but we were working together.
And I asked… I told him about this session, and since he's young,
So, this is a different perspective.
And since he's starting to be a teacher or help
people learn. I thought it was…
important that we can hear his voice, even if he's not raising the hand.
That's on.
Victoria, thank you very much, and I was sort of looking for a place to say hi to Gabriele.
And, uh, let him jump in. If you'd like to say anything or just introduce yourself, please feel free right now.
Okay, thank you. It's so curious to be here, um… Uh, just the connection that happens through internet.
It's astounding to me. I'm glad to hear your conversation by now. I don't want to jump in because.
I… I… Still trying to put my toes in order.
But it's really… Uh… Uh, good things to be here.
So, thank you for having, uh, opened your door, internet door for me now.
That's great, thank you. What city in Italy are you in?
Very cool. Thank you, thank you so much.
I am Padwa, near Venice. Padua.
Um, cool. Uh, LP1, are you Don Bergen or Louise King, or…?
I'm Louise, hello everyone. Yes.
You are Louise, okay, you look so much like my friend Don, that's very funny. Thanks for joining us, Louise.
Okay. Um, yes, and I've joined today because I am, um, teaching. I'm teaching in an international section in a French Lise.
Um, and, um, I'm trying to decide whether I am seeing a decline in curiosity and confidence in my classroom.
Or whether it's just I'm getting old. Um, we always hear that from.
uh, you know, the previous generation or the young people today, um, they're not curious, they're not whatever.
Um, but I would say that the last couple of years, I have really begun to wonder.
if it's me or if it's them. Um, some of the things I see is I do see.
Many students lacking in confidence. They're asking some of the most basic things. Can I use color miss? Can I use whiteout?
Should I underline? Should I… and it's like, I have to say to them, you can make those decisions. They aren't… Challenging decisions, they're not important decisions.
You can make those for yourself. And I am seeing this anxiety of them, um, you know, making the simplest of moves.
Um, the other one is, um… I really think I've seen a decline in attention.
Um, and, uh, focus and involvement in tasks. Um, I was reflecting on a particular class that I gave an assessment to recently, and I've done the same assessment perhaps for the past 4 or 5 years, and literally, it's the very worst.
performance I've ever had. So I'm the same teacher in the room.
And this is a really cool performance across… I know there are lots of factors there.
Um, so that's one of the reasons I'm here. I've… I've got a bit of a thing about technology. I'm a maths teacher.
And definitely with the use of calculators, I've seen a great decline in students' mental abilities.
Now, there is the feeling that that doesn't matter, they're using calculators, and as long as they can still think mathematically, it doesn't matter if they're not doing calculations, or they're not graphing, or they're not.
But I wonder if it does diminish their mental capacity for understanding if they haven't done it themselves.
So now I see them using ChatG… ChatGPT to, um, literally write their essays.
We're going to see a decline in the skills of writing, of, um, expressing their ideas, um, in the written word.
Although, again, you could argue, does that matter? We're moving away from the printed word, we're moving back to, um, video, to the spoken word.
spreading ideas through the spoken word, so is it important if they can no longer.
I should. Okay.
Right. So I'm full of all these, these questions about my situation.
Um, I did… I did have that thought that, because I see this, is curiosity innate, or can we teach it?
I try to teach problem solving. I see some students are just there, they just have ideas, they try them out.
It doesn't work, they'll try something different, they might be asking questions.
And I see other students who simply are there going, I don't know what to do.
And I have never seen myself, despite I've tried hard, I've tried different methods.
I've never seen a student learn how to problem solve. They either seem to have it.
Or they don't. Um, they might be really great at lots of other things, so that's brilliant, but they're not… they're not doing that aspect of it.
I'm sorry to go on, but I've got a couple of other things to say.
Please, can you tell us what… can you tell us what grade you teach, just so I can…
I'm somebody… I take… I don't know what… I don't know what the French grades are, just let me tell you, I teach from… I teach 11-year-olds through to 17-year-olds.
Thank you, please continue.
Um, I was, um, we've been talking about the curiosity and social situations as well. I have a very poor memory.
for vocabulary. I have to be immersed in a vocabulary for quite a long time. I'm probably dyslexic, but too old to have had any, um… certification.
I dread talking to people and trying to be curious about them, because I won't remember the details, and the worst thing that can happen to me is I meet them again, so if I meet any of you again.
I can't remember the name, I can't remember where they lived. They've told me all these things about them, and for that sort of detail, my head is a sieve.
So I think there are all sorts of things if you're talking about curiosity and social situations, you've got your culture, you've got your upbringing, and you've got your confidence in, you know, maintaining those relationships, uh.
Over… over a period of time, so… Um, maybe that's enough from me. Thank you.
That's delightful. Luis, thank you for joining us. You reminded me that sitting behind me is my dad's old slide rule.
And, uh, that I once…
many, many, many years ago in my youth knew how to run it, and…
and understood, because my dad had sort of approached it that way, that the slide rule is a fantastic way to estimate things, that
that engineers were able to just quickly ballpark things.
Uh, to do the… is it Fermi?
One of the physicists was Feynman, Fermi, one of those,
who was really good at, sort of, quick estimations of large-scale things, so…
We're kind of losing that as well.
Um…
Young students can't do mental arithmetic, um, they just don't understand.
And they think I'm a genius because I can do mental arithmetic on the board while I'm solving problems.
Have you seen the movie Idiocracy?
I mean, they're in all. I haven't, I'll look it out.
Just so I… Aaron.
Yeah, it's, alas, a little bit too topical for what we're talking about.
You know, in the future, one guy wakes up from a cryogen… an accidental cryogenic sleep, and suddenly it turns out he's the smartest human on the…
in the country, so they make him president, because he only one who knows, like, the most primitive things. It's a dark comedy.
But, uh, you'll unfortunately probably enjoy it because of your setting.
Um, uh, Doug, please.
Yeah, I, um… I… I can't help it, sort of.
feel the question… It's sort of a straw man.
Because it's… it's… am I… judging somebody else not being curious enough is what's really being.
And… And the underlying… the underlying active ingredient.
to me is connection. And if somebody is… is… if I'm not in connection with the person I'm talking to.
then there's… there's really no way to… to, um… to engage.
And my experience with…
My experience with younger folk is sort of… is a little bit bivalent.
My son, who's around 30. is, you know.
In some undiagnosed way, because he defied all testing, he's.
You know, neurodivergent… And he falls into that category of… hypersocial, like the quintessential salesman.
Um, and… He's endlessly curious. He is always either asking questions or.
Or, you know, going into… Um, gymnastics and.
You know, as Ulysses-like status in the company he works in, because.
people have seen him repairing his own flat tires.
Which captures this last point that was just made, that, you know, like.
He learned how to do that, and somebody… You know, his peers think.
That's insanely amazing that he knows how to do that.
And, um… Conversely.
Um… there's a rationality to.
younger people. being disconnected because of the insanity of the educational system they're subjected to.
So, so you're saying, partly this could be a rational response to a really crappy system they're embedded in.
And the difference is that.
Yeah.
to a really insane world that they're staring at and going, what am I, you know, what am I supposed to do with this?
How am I supposed to respond to this? And I do think there is a… You know, as much as they may not.
have basic underlying skills that we have because we're.
creatures of the, you know. 20th century, um… That, um… They do have a clarity and awareness.
of their world and their position in it. And there's a certain level of agency and empowerment.
Um, that also came with the fact that, you know.
They get what they want when they want it, what they're not interested in. They're not interested in what they are interested in they are interested in. Everything's immediate gratification, and.
They're the kings and queens of their own domain.
Hmm.
via their screens. And they're… so their whole orientation and experience.
of the world. is a completely different, like, you know, stranger in a strange land compared to my orientation.
So it's a different world, and. My curiosity… in that is to try to get to their understanding and perspective.
an experience of it. Um, and wanting to know that, wanting to understand that.
from the inside out, not from the outside looking at.
Doug, thank you for layering in a bunch of really interesting other perspectives on the question. I mean, the…
You've got me thinking, is curiosity a superficial trait?
Uh, and connection is the thing we seek, and, you know, in that sense, do we need to be talking and inquiring and inquisitive in order to connect?
Uh, and I don't think… I think the answer is no, we don't. We can actually connect without those things.
sometimes really deeply.
there's all kinds of interesting questions on the table. Judy?
Off to you.
5. I need to, I need to unmute.
No, you're already unmuted, we hear you.
Oh, okay, um… I think it's a really complicated topic in the sense that.
there's intrinsic and extrinsic curiosity, and it can be enabled or.
made less popular by circumstantial situations, so… We might want to scope this out more broadly, because I think there's a lot of intrinsic curiosity, but it can be stifled very easily if people are put down for asking questions or such.
And I know I was a hugely curious kid, and so I… I did get suppressive comments at times.
Fortunately, I got reinforcing. behaviors from my family structure, so I persisted.
But I think that this is a really important topic because it's not just curiosity per se, it's acquisition of knowledge and the process of gaining perspective.
From examining the full scope and breadth of a topic, and I think.
That's a bigger question for me in the educational system right now, because I don't think we're encouraging.
that type of in-depth consideration of. opposite points of view, for instance. If you think, A, well, what is the opposite of A position.
What are all the positions in between? How do you sort that out to find what seems to be the best? And that's different than sort of intrinsic curiosity, which I think small children have, but it can be stifled.
I'll just stop there.
Love that. And you were fortunate to grow up in an environment, in a family, that sort of counteracted
other stimuli, which is great.
Thanks, Judy. Klaus.
Yeah, I think we are talking about different types of curiosity, so there's this interpersonal curiosity.
Which is really very cultural. I mean… I worked for Disney for 21 years, and then we moved to the Hong Kong project.
We got set up with a relocation service, and they started us a lot with a book called Culture Shock Hong Kong.
And, uh, gave us, you know, an in-depth, uh.
briefing on what to say and not to say to people.
Um, then I went to Germany from there, after 21 years with Disney.
Um, and worked for a very large German corporation, Metro.
You know, in the, uh, in the corporate office.
I was just shocked what people would ask me, you know, I mean.
I mean, it was just… it was just so off the wall from an American perspective, very personal questions.
That, uh, if you offset an American, you would be considered.
Would, you know? So, so there is this interpersonal, which is very cultural, and then we operated in 30 countries.
So, now I would have, uh… I would go to India, to China, to Russia.
Romania, Italy, Spain, right? And it's really very unique how.
People have basic expectations about what you should be curious about and where the lines are.
But then there's this other curiosity about your world, your profession, just the.
the world around you, you know, the society you live in, the political life.
And to want to have a better understanding of that.
And I think the information… we have available today.
is so amazingly more, you know, than there ever was.
Um, because of social media, and because of the access to.
the internet and all of that. Uh, and I… it's probably overwhelming now for, for, uh, particularly younger people who haven't found.
a foundation yet to know themselves more, yeah. And to be more secure in their own being.
Um, so I don't know if we can randomly say that curiosity is less than what it used to be, because the world has just… the world around us has just changed so much, you know, and the information is so focused and so concentrated.
And so available now. That, uh, I don't think we can even begin to compare ourselves to someone who lived 100 years ago, or even 50 years ago.
Yeah. Um, Doug was starting that piece of the conversation about maybe
Kids today are growing up in a… such a dramatically different world, and we're trying to apply archaic ideas about curiosity to…
a completely different environment. That's a…
An interesting take. Eve, please.
Dang.
Hey, um, wonderful to see everyone here.
Um, well, if you'll…
be so kind to let me share, uh,
and integrate something else I've been thinking about.
Um, another angle to curiosity.
Um, and thinking about the world as it's reshaped by loss of norms and migration and digital life and…
Climate shifts, um, our sense of place,
is, uh, more about the connections and meanings we choose
Um, so curiosity intersects with this sense of place. My background is architecture,
Um, that keeps our sense of place alive rather than static. And…
One where we continually rediscover what grounds us in…
challenges us and expands our sense of who we are in relation to the world.
So, for many, maybe 15 to 25-year-olds,
Maybe it's the sense of place is shaped as much by their digital communities and global influences.
As by their immediate surroundings, and…
It's so different than how we all grew up, like, in the 70s, when I grew up.
Living somatically, going to the creek,
Looking at the tadpoles,
Um, you know, um, learning about things, uh, by hiking or walking, and…
Um, living in our bodies, in our own physical contexts.
Um, so I just think it's so different. Anyway, I just want to bring up this sense of place.
Thank you very much.
Uh, Gil.
Yeah, I've been… I've been listening to that very thing, Eve.
context, uh, throughout this whole conversation. Context and norms.
Uh, is what's been echoing me throughout this, and um… and I'm hearing Ken Homer, who's not here yet, uh, with this question, is ever-present question about who's we.
And the corollary question of who's they?
Which has been throughout this whole conversation, where, you know, there's a whole we and they thing going on here, and it's very not specific. Um, and it's very relevant, because we're talking about conversations with people who are other in some sort of way.
you know, different gender, different generation, different geography, different life experience.
Different schooling, different roles, and so forth. Um, so it's something about, um, our expectations across those differences.
Uh, and the acculturation.
Um, the norms, I've… I've…
Pride and Prejudice has been rolling in my mind.
as we're talking here. You know, where there was a richly nurtured culture of propriety and manners and how to speak, and how not to speak.
And it's different across different classes, not just between the lords and the servants, but between the landowners and the middle class and the tradespeople in town. They're very different patterns of relationship.
and speech and expectation, and what could be asked for. And LP1, I'm sorry, I forgot your name.
Louise.
Luis. Yeah, hi Louise. Um, um…
Wait…
You know, you talked about how the French are very direct.
But the French are different in different parts of France, as the Americans are very different in different parts of the United States.
Trust me, I grew up in New York, and I live in the Bay Area. You know, really different standards and practices about what you talk about and what you don't.
what you can ask about and what you can't. So, so…
All of which is to say that the we who is… who… who…
The we who is raising the question in this conversation, and the they who we are talking about,
is a very important and unstated part of this conversation.
Thanks, Kian. Um, if you want to… if you want to perf…
And it's very…
Very fluid. Sorry.
If you want to deepen your own perceptions of the we's and theys,
please feel free, because…
As always, the elaboration helps us.
Kevin, please.
Yeah, you know, Gil's… comment is actually really right on to where I was going. Um… I worked with a friend with the Eastern Band Cherokee, and we were working on a new product development for them that would diversify their income past casinos.
And, uh, we created a thing with them for the taste of Cherokee, and they had some.
Uh… vegetables that were… had been cultivated that had been domesticated, that they could brand.
And, uh, but the question that they came back with, and they took forever because tribes do.
They realized that they did not want to make.
food, and it was the taste of Cherokee, right? That was the thing. They said they didn't want to be… make food a commodity. It should be something where if someone is hungry.
And they come to your door, you feed them. They said that, you know, on the other hand, the Choctaw and the Chickasaw.
would have done it. They're more transactional tribes. But the question that… The turkey always asked.
Especially when you're dealing with a Katua band of Cherokee, which are the more traditional and creative.
is what does this decision make us in the world.
Under the standpoint of reciprocity, and it's like. Oh, this turns… feeding people into a commodity thing, and we sell it, and, you know, they sell their crops, they're.
Double weave baskets can sell for a couple thousand dollars, because they're… that can hold water, they're amazing.
Um, but… I haven't seen other groups say, what does this decision make us? Because, you know.
This was going to do a lot for them. You know, they.
have casino revenue, and they don't have a lot of other revenue, and uh… But they turned down the chance to make.
to have a really popular brand in western North Carolina.
Because it… it would make them something that they don't want to be, and so… but it takes a tribe in a circle a long time to make that decision, and so when you're dealing with them.
You know, the fastest way to get things done and work with a tribe is to have all the time in the world.
And so we had posters made up, we had labels, and they just threw them away.
I mean, it was their dollar, but it was, uh… So that's an interesting question, and I don't… I don't see white folks asking that question much.
It's, uh…
Um, Kevin, thank you for the story. It seems like they went…
They went deep into their culture,
and thought about what were the influences or effects on their culture of this kind of decision, where we have
been born into and have assumed away a normalized a transactional environment.